Just before we get started with this one,
there are gonna be some Chinese pronunciations. I'm not Chinese. What?
And I don't speak Chinese either.
Although that would be called even this guy's name was a little bit tricky.
I found a guy saying it on YouTube by no pronunciation dictionary.
Didn't have this dude. I think it's Hong shoe tra I'm just gonna call him Hong,
because that's what I can do.
I apologize to anyone who's gonna get triggered because of this.
Let's get into it.
It is one of the bloodiest conflicts in human history in 1851,
the typing rebellion exploded in Ching dynasty,
China causing death on an UN unprecedented scale.
Over 14 years of civil war and estimated 20 million people died more
than they were killed in the whole of world war I,
it was simply the deadliest war of the 19th century and it was all thanks to one
man, Hong Shang, an ordinary village school master and aspiring civil servants.
Hong was a nobody.
When he fell into a trance one day in 1837 and emerged convinced that he was the
son of God, quickly amassing a fighting force of 1 million.
He marched against the ruling chin dynasty eventually conquering most of
Southern China and establishing his own heavenly kingdom faded by Christian
missionaries admired and loathed his home.
This is the story of the anonymous man who almost became ruler of China and the
unprecedented horrors that accompanied his rise and his fall
In 1837,
a young man in Guango got some bad news buff decades of studying had failed the
entrance exam to the Chinese civil service for the third time broken by the
news. The young man, he suffered a mental collapse.
He fell into a delirium for days on end,
experiencing strange and terrifying visions.
This young man's name was Hong true track.
When he finally recovered from his breakdown, China would never be the same.
Again, born in 1814 in the Southern province of Guang.
Hong had always felt that he was destined for greatness.
The youngest of four children.
He had been famous among his small farming community for his supernatural
intelligence. In fact,
Hong was so intelligent that his community had banded together to raise funds
for his schooling.
It was hoped that one day he would pass the civil service entrance exam.
If it sounds odd to you that an entire village would care so much about one guy
passing one exam.
That's because you are fortunate enough not to live in early 19th century China
in Hongs day, Chinese social classes were rigidly defined.
According to Confucius's teachings.
If you were born into a poor farming village,
you died in a poor farming village.
The only way out was that one exam passing. It meant not only glory for you,
but also everyone else that you knew. So all of Hong's neighbors,
they pick their hopes and their dreams on him.
Aing an exam with a 1% pass rate.
Maybe we're beginning to see why he had that mental breakdown. I mean,
no pressure. Right? In 1827, after years of study the teenage song,
he traveled to the nearby city of Guango to take the entrance exam for the first
time. It was the moment his entire life had been building towards.
So what happens? Well, ye guest did Hong.
He flunked it pretty heart.
Not only that he flunked the retake just a few years later by 1837,
when nos story opened,
Hong had traveled to Guangzhou to take the exam for the third time when he
failed his mental collapse was so great that he lapsed into a coma where he was
tormented by visions and what visions, Hong dreams of an old man with a beard,
giving him a sword and telling him to slay all the demons in China,
a middle aged man then instructed him in demon slaying before sending him back
to earth. When Hong recovered, he was kind of like, whoa, that was pretty weird.
And then he went straight back to his day job as a school master in his village.
It wasn't until a chance, encount years later,
this Hong came to realize the significance of these visions in 1843,
the now 29 year old Hong was back home after failing the civil service exam for
a fourth time,
he was entertaining a cousin in his house when the cousin suddenly founded the
bookshelf and asked Hong what on, uh, that was,
that thing was Quang. Maybe on the pronunciation,
on that one is a Christ pamphlet written by a Chinese convert.
Someone had given it to Hong while he was failing one of his exams in Guango and
had never even looked at it. But now his cousin had pointed it out.
Hong gave the pamphlet a bit of a re what he found the,
it absolutely blew his mind in the pamphlet's description of the Bible.
Hong finally found the key to his wacky fever dream.
The old man with the sword that had been God,
the middle aged man that had been Jesus.
The cool to rid the world of demons that had been God himself charging Hong with
wiping out the Ching dynasty in China.
By the time he finished reading the pamphlet, Hong had experienced a revelation.
He was Jesus Christ's brother God's second son.
And it was God's will that he overthrow the Ching and become Rooter of China.
And look,
if there's one thing I've learned in my many attempts to found a Simon whistle
worshiping cult it's that people tend not to follow a rant Messiah unless
they have a really good reason.
Apparently YouTube videos is not enough on the surface.
No one in Jing China had a good reason for following Hong the empire.
It was stable and it was respected around the world. Not before long.
The philosopher Aire had written one need not be obsessed with the merits of the
Chinese to recognize that their empire is the best thing the world has ever
seen, but scratch that shiny surface.
And you'd discover a rot had set in that was nearly terminal.
The ruling ch where ethnic minority mans you'd seize power in 60 44.
Although they'd since run China like any other dynasty,
they were despised by the hand majority they'd also oversee an enormous
population, boom, that saw China's population over the 18th century.
This was accompanied by no expansion in civil infrastructure.
So no extra sewers roads or, you know, job prospects on top of that,
the first opium war had just completed in 1842, winning Britain,
not just Hong Kong,
but also the right to do flood China with highly addictive drugs.
By the time Hong declared himself, the second son of God,
China was a country that was absolutely creaking at the seams.
It was humiliated on the world stage and it was full of young angry men with no
prospects for social betterments, marriage or employment.
This was worse in the hacker class of which Hong was a member.
Now we did mention this in the rush to get to Hong's story,
but Hong's family came from an internal migrant class called the hacker.
Their ancestors had settled in their villages some 800 years earlier,
but they were still treated as outsiders,
a humiliation that hacker across China faced every single day.
Now please do remember the word hacker because it's going to be important. Okay.
The last chess piece that we need to put on our board today are the
missionaries.
Protestant missionaries have been active in China before our story is set,
but then been forced to work in secrets and keep really low profile.
After the first opium war, though,
they suddenly had a lot more freedom to move around and preach.
When Hong discovered the Bible in 1843,
he was just one of the millions of Chinese learning about the good book for the
first time. So when Hong starts telling random villages, he's the son of God.
In a few moments, people are going to be primed to believe in the Christ God,
in a way that they simply weren't before.
Not that Hong immediately amassed followers though at first,
his village was mortified by Hong's new career path.
He was a even fired from his school master job in 1844 for calling Confucius a
false God with this rather cruddy career R Hogan, a friends thing,
UNG decided to become traveling preachers. This was not a success.
When the pair entered Gushi province in 1844,
Hong's wacky claims of right look I'm God, you gotta worship me now.
It's how it is. It won in really no friends. And he in Fey,
they soon became loving stocks. What a surprise,
but there was one group who was prepared to listen. Hong's Christian teachings.
They found an audience among the outsider hacker class,
whether because Hong was one of them or just because they were fed up with
Confucius. The hacker began to band around this new Messiah.
By the time Hong left to continuous preaching,
he had enough followers Ang that Fe stayed behind you,
organize them into an effective militia slash cult known as the by
way or God's worshiper society. The militia numbered only a few thousands,
but they would soon become the core of an army that would lay waste
to China.
The next few years was spent with Hong honing this new religion in 1847.
He studied under the American preacher IJ Roberts,
but the two fell out over Hong's rejection of Christ, concepts of forgiveness.
And he decided to focus on his own divinity.
Not long after Hong returned to Grandhi and took charge of things militia
together. They wonder the countryside, fine tuning their message.
The more they walked, the more their anger grew in village.
After village Hong and Fang witnessed the misery and deprivation of Ching rule
faced with all these wasted lives.
Hong began preaching the abolition of private property and the end of social
classes, but his rhetoric, it didn't just stop at property.
Hong started casting the man shoes,
the ethnic group that Ching came from as literal demons before long,
he was prophesizing a millennial final battle between good and evil.
That take place in China. This was enough to make Jing officials take notice.
They began harassing the God worship,
but hoping to stop people believing in Hong's prophesized war. Instead,
they actually triggered it in July,
1850 government troops attacked a God worshipers militia across Grae Hong's
followers. They took up arms. I for, and I became two for tooth,
which became life for a life. Things came to her head in January of 1851.
When government troops attacked Hongs followers in the city of Jing young nearby
some 10,000 God worshipers, they gathered whipped up into a rage.
They marched on Jin yang, the Jing troops.
They just didn't stand a chance by January the 11th Jing Y was overrun.
The city fell all to the God worshipers that day.
Hong declares the creation of the typing heavenly Kings and with himself as
heavenly king and Fang as king of the south, no sooner was gin yang secured.
Then the new heavenly King's army was marching up the young sea river,
no longer the defenders, but rather the attackers. Now, if you were a official,
the next few months must have been rather terrifying.
When Hong started marching his army,
it was only a few thousand strong before long.
He was leading an army of a million people.
There was just something about the way that Hong had captured J yang that made
him seem just a bit legit.
Suddenly everyone with a grievance against the government thought that he was
their man peasants joined the army hackers, intellectuals.
He even tradesmen suffering the post opium, war, economic collapse, Hong,
even less women join his ranks in March into the thick of combat.
He encouraged his followers to grow their hair long something punishable by
death unto Ching law. As 1851 progressed into 1852.
The insurgents they steamrolled across the landscape.
The chings legendary armies. They SC to before them towns and cities,
they just fell without a fight like ISIS sweeping across the deserts of Syria
and Iraq, Hong and his religious fanatics.
They appeared unstoppable and just like ISIS,
the typing developed reputation for brutality as city after
city, before them fell, the type began Massac occurring.
And any civilians who didn't join their ranks captured Shing soldiers.
They were executed any ethnic man Jews taken alive while they didn't remain
alive for much longer by March, 1853, the typing we're approaching Ning.
As people tried to flee the city Hongs army weed out the man Jews and had them
burned alive.
The flames flickering upwards from their melting flesh warned Ning.
Come on March.
The 10th Hong's forces finally captured the city as Hong was carried in by 16
bearers on a yellow silk chair.
He declared an N the new capital of the typing heavenly kingdom meant himself as
the rightful ruler of China. I in Beijing,
all the Jing could do was look on in shock.
Most of Southern China had fallen to this demented Colson.
Now its self proclaimed Messiah had captured one of the empires,
former capitals.
All of a sudden it was starting to look like Hong might actually be right.
Maybe the world was really ending and for the Jing, the apocalypse, well,
it was already here.
Often Ning was made the typing capital a steady stream of Europeans began to
trickle in determined to observe the new Christian kingdom in China and see if
it was for real, what they experienced there. Well,
if the more confused than ever the typing kingdom was so puritanical,
it would've shocked. Even Puritans. There were punishments for smoking,
drinking, or dancing, all forms of sexual conduct carried the death penalty.
Even between husbands and wives. At the same time,
hung himself had retreated to an opulent palace where he lived surrounded by
harm of beautiful women who attended to his every desire.
Then it was the religious aspect. The typing leadership was divided into Kings.
All of whom could supposedly communicate with God. It was the king of the east.
Yahi Chan the king of the west, why Chano and so on.
Each of them would fall into TRAs and speak in tongues with official typing
policy being made during these spooky ceremonies.
But there was more to the heavenly kingdom than me.
Religious mania after Fang had died in battle during the March on naing yang,
she queen the of the east an elevated to Hong's right hand, man with Ning.
Now conquered yang had effectively become the prime minister of the kingdom,
but he was slowly turning it into a functional state throughout 1853 yang
oversaw an intense program of railway building.
He founded a typing postal service,
began collecting taxes and organized the army.
He also instituted social reforms that pre good chairman MAs program.
Then century later yang made men and women equal and he eliminated private
property. So confusing was all this, that Western powers.
They didn't really know what to make of it.
The times of London called Fort Britain to back the typing against the Ching in
Christ and solidarity,
Karl marks first cheered the peasant revolution then decided as violence was
worse than class oppression,
Deni American preacher IJ Roberts was at first so delighted with his old pupil
that he hotfooted to Ning to live there before leaving a year later in disgusted
Hongs and Cian habits, this Western attention, it was encouraged by the typing.
One of Yang's goals as minister was to get American,
French and British businessmen on side and try to wooo their governments into
supporting his and Hong's new state.
It helps to sort of think of the typing as a bit, similar to ISIS,
like the terror group,
they believed they were the true voice of their religion like ISIS.
They hoped others of the same religion would flock to them and help their cause.
And just like ISIS, they used religion to justify unbelievable violence,
even against their own people. The cruel example of this Barbar see,
when it came in 1855, yang was starting to challenge Hong's authority.
The minister had quietly built his own power base in the typing army and was now
claiming God was speaking through him and not Hogans that the heaven leaking
himself was million an imposter.
This would turn out to be a fateful move on September.
The second Hong ordered the king of the west.
Why Tua to exterminate yang over two bloody months,
way slaughtered all of Yang's followers within yang, J soldiers, civilians,
yang, family members, all of them were killed in a nonstop orgy of bloodshed.
It estimated today that 27,000 typing civilians died in the per,
when it was over Hong had way put to the sword as well in the aftermath,
Hong switched the entire way his government functioned.
People were now promoted based, not on merits,
but on personal loyalty to Hong any pretense equality, it was simply gone.
The typing had link kingdom. It was no longer even mascara as a utopia.
It was a brutal dictatorship where everyone's lives were in the hands of a
religiou fanatic. Fortunately,
they would also wouldn't be around for much longer
With the ti date, eating herself like a hungry dragon devouring, its own tail.
Now might be the time to ask where the Ching were during all of this.
Any answer is well, they were all fighting the French. Yeah.
With impeccably bad timing.
The French had chosen to start the second opium war just as Wade was turning
naing into an AOI rather than press the opportunity.
The Ching were instead stretched almost to breaking points,
but there had been a change in the winds of fate, not a perceptible one,
not just yet,
but one that would ultimately become a hurricane in the contested DARS of typing
rural local malicious that started to spring up that were loyal to the Ching
known as the new armies.
These militias were grassroots far focused on local issues.
Although they fought under the Ching banner,
they were basically run by wars who hated the Ching a little less than they
hated the religious nut jobs that were right on their doorstep. In normal times,
the Ching would've tried to crush these toy soldiers,
but these weren't normal times.
Instead the Ching forged in aligns with the new armies on the implicit
understanding that the wars would be left to their own devices.
This would turn out to be the best decision the distant Ching emperors ever made
as the new armies grew alarm bells were also ringing in Western capitals about
the typing in 80 61.
The typing armies tried to take Shanghai in important new U trading port in the
aftermath of the first opium war. The typing failed in their assaults,
but it had convinced the British and the Americans that something needed to be
done.
They began arming the Ching forces and training them just as the official Ching
army was hooking up with the new armies in no time at all,
the revitalized Ching were ready to give the heavenly kingdom hell and hell.
They gave them really.
It is hard to imagine an underworld much worse than the Inferno unleashed on the
typing. After a decade of typing strategies like shoot everyone,
shoot them some more and then set the survivors on fire.
The Ching armies were through with the rules of war from now on the Ching would
raise any town. They passed through to the grounds.
They would mass execute prisoners.
They would put civilians to the so Hong had predicted an apocalyptic final
battle in China. Well,
the Ching were the ones who were going to give it to him for two whole years.
Southern China burned the new armies raped and pilled their way across the
landscape.
The Ching and typing destroyed so many crops that severe famine set in there
were peasant rebellions plagues, the mass destruction of property.
It said that over 600 cities were just wiped from the map. At first,
the outcome of this renewed war,
it was uncertain a late surge by the typee actually got their armies within 70
kilometers of Beijing and the seat of Ching power, but slowly and surely,
the tide began to turn.
The winds of change had finally reached the force of gales and the typing wave
was swept all the way back to Ning. By the summer of 1863,
the Ching armies were encircling.
The heavenly capital supply lines were cut off escape route.
They were blocked come may of 1864, the typing rebel stronghold.
It was completely isolated and its population was starving.
The Ching armies had done the impossible.
They'd recovered from the onslaught to beat the typing of their own game.
Now it would just take one final push to bring about judgment day.
So at this stage, you might be wondering where the heck is that ho dude.
And the answer is well exactly where we left him all the way back in 1856
insiders palace in N completely unable to grasp reality.
After the murder of yang and his supporters,
Hong had completely disappeared from public view retreating into a world of Ory
and vice while his kingdom burns policy making had been left to squabbling
generals with the result that the Ching fightback went unanswered until it was
too late by 1862,
the few typing leaders able to speak to Hong urged him to evacuate the city.
They wanted him to fall back and to regroup to every single one.
Hong had said the same thing,
no one would leave not while the typing had got on their side.
So people bull stayed.
They stayed as the Ching armies strangled the supply lines.
They stayed as food run out and they stayed as starvation gripped come
1864,
even Hong's most devoted disciples could see that the typing were in trouble
three years before a Ching siege of the typing city of Anne qu had resulted in
industrial scale.
Cannibalism human flesh had have been sold in the local markets desperate to
avoid a similar situation in naing Hong's advisors.
They begged him to do something. Finally, the second son of God,
he agreed leaving his palace for the last time.
Hong appeared to his people and declared that God would provide for them like
Moses in the deserts, they would eat manner scent from the heavens.
He ordered his people to go and gather this manner, wherever they could find it.
What the starving prisoners of Ning found were weeds, weeds,
and wild growing in edible berries. Nonetheless,
they gathered them all and returned to their leader. P smiles at their bounty,
blessed the food and had it cooked. Finally,
the heavenly king took his bowl of manner, ate from it.
And then he promptly died from food poisoning.
Turns out those inedible berries were really,
really inedible rather than mana Hong had provided his people with the Chinese
version of Jonestown brand. Kool-Aid.
Now there are some who dispute this account of Hong's death.
There is another school that says that he intentionally committed suicide.
And yet another that says he died after contracting an illness in practical
terms, though,
it doesn't really matter in the aftermath of Hong's Ascension to heaven,
or maybe his dissent to hell his teenage song.
Hong was put on the throne by now, though it was hopeless.
The Jing were literally at the gates.
These were the last days of Sodom and the brimstone.
It was on its way on July, the 19 18 64,
the Ching retook Ning in a three day street battle.
This was the time where the bloodiest battle humankind had ever seen took place.
There were house by house massacres as an Ning fell,
mass suicides is typing true believers,
gathered together and set themselves on fire by thousands. It was the song.
The Jones turned massacre and the battle of, and grads all rolled into one.
It was death and destruction on a scale that mankind had never seen before.
The seal had been opened.
Judgment day was here at last after 72 hours of carnage,
the city was pacified in the three days alone.
Over a hundred thousand people had died, but still the killing didn't stop.
The mass executed all of their prisoners.
They forced the surviving typing leaders to write confessions,
and then they executed them too. Finally,
they exhumed Hong's corpse from its resting place inside his palace and had it
cremated tradition says they fired his ashes out of a cannon to deny him resting
place. Although sporadic fighting would continue until 1866,
the typing rebellion was officially owed it's heavenly king. He was dead.
It's heavenly kingdom. If bla ashes in the 14 years of its existence,
the typing rebellion is thought to have killed somewhere in the region of 20
million people. More people than died during world war.
I it's probably the deadliest civil conflicts to have ever cripped the world.
The us civil war killed around 750,000 to the fighting in China.
This was belly a blip.
Not that the death stopped with the rebellions end though, about 75 years later,
a man obsessed with the typing rebellion was inspired by Hong's life to launch
his own revolution in China, known as Maza.
He would go on to oversee a regime that at an absolute minimum killed another
20 million people. Now, Hong may seem like an obscure figure in the west,
a Chinese fanatically committed war crimes in some far away lands,
many decades ago, but in many ways, our world is still living with his legacy.
He may not be as famous as Hitler or Stalin or even ISIS,
but Hong was as terrible as any of them.
And maybe it's time that we found space to remember his victims too.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do give us the thumbs up balloon. Don't forget to subscribe.
We do four videos every week. So if you subscribe,
those should come up in your feed if you wanna make absolutely sure of that
though hit that bell button. That's fantastic. And as always,
I'll see you next time.